# Malak-Abdalmaksoud-501032242-_TermProject-for-machine-Learning-for-engineers
A machine learning model was implemented to classify the Sex of abalone based on the physical measurements, including Height, Length, Whole weight, Shucked weight, Viscera weight, Shell weight, and Rings.  The target variable was divided into three classes: infants, female, and Male, which exhibited a slight imbalance in the number of instances per class. Using Pycaret's compare_models() function, most models achieved an average of accuracy of around 50%, with logistic regression obtaining the highest accuracy and Linear Discriminant Analysis in achieving the highest F1 score . To further improve model performance,  the features were normalized so that all eight features ranged from 0 to 1. This normalization increased the accuracy of certain models, such as SVM, which improved from 48% to 55%, making it one of the top three models in terms of accuracy, but overall it did not show a significant improvement. To address the class imbalance in the target, SOMET was applied. The combination of SMOTE and normalization further improved the performance of three models: Extra Trees Classifier, Random Forest Classifier, and Light Gradient Boosting Machine achieving accuracies of 58%, 57.7%, and 57%, respectively, however it did not result in desired performance. Finally, blending these three top-performing models resulted in an overall accuracy of 59%. Therefore, the final model was implemented using the blended top three models, Extra Trees Classifier, Random Forest Classifier, and Light Gradient Boosting Machine, after applying SMOTE and normalization. The low performance is due to the choice of the target. In  the abalone dataset, the physical measurements  show a weak  correlation with the sex of abalone, resulting in models with limited predictive performance.  
5-minute video describing the outcomes of the implemented model: https://youtu.be/qeC97cyerWs 
